update and clean up migration docs (#18527)
cockroachdb/docs: src/current/v24.1/migration-overview.md

- *Reduced functionality* takes some, but not all, application functionality offline. For example, you can disable writes but not reads while you migrate the application data, and queue data to be written after completing the migration.

For an overview of lift-and-shift migrations to CockroachDB, see [Lift and Shift](#lift-and-shift).

#### Minimal downtime

> If your application cannot tolerate downtime, then you should aim for a *live migration*. This reduces downtime to an absolute minimum, such that users do not notice the migration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A *live migration* can help to minimize downtime to an absolute minimum and to reduce the impact of a migration on your applications and users.
```

> If your application cannot tolerate downtime, then you should aim for a *live migration*. This is also called a "zero-downtime" approach. "Zero" means that downtime is reduced to either an absolute minimum or zero, such that users do not notice the migration.

Reviewer 2: I'm still unsure if it's ok to call `zero-downtime`, since we don't advocate immediate cutover. And should we actually present immediate cutover here? cc @Jeremyyang920 @ajstorm

Author: This is a question also for PM - I can address in a separate PR, but I have simplified these sentences in the meantime.

Reviewer 3: I think it might be okay to present it since it really is an option out there. But, im not sure we want to term is live migration to confuse with the LMS itself. Again part of the whole renaming and branding exercise we want to do. 

I think we should just call out that "zero" can exist but there are caveats such as data consistency and leave it at that.

The minimum possible downtime depends on whether you can tolerate inconsistency in the migrated data:

> - Migrations with *consistent cutover* reduce downtime to an absolute minimum (i.e., from 30 seconds to sub-seconds) while keeping data synchronized between the source database and CockroachDB. **Consistency requires downtime.** In this approach, downtime occurs right before [cutover](#cutover-strategy), as you drain the remaining transactions from the source database to CockroachDB.

Reviewer 4: Nit: Migrations performed using *consistent cutover*

> - Migrations with *consistent cutover* reduce downtime to an absolute minimum (i.e., from 30 seconds to sub-seconds) while keeping data synchronized between the source database and CockroachDB. **Consistency requires downtime.** In this approach, downtime occurs right before [cutover](#cutover-strategy), as you drain the remaining transactions from the source database to CockroachDB.

Reviewer 4: I'm also not sure this is the clearest wording. It seems to imply that a consistent cutover will reduce downtime from 30 seconds to sub seconds. Whereas, I think in consistent cutover, the bottom line is: customers will incur downtime, but the goal is to minimize downtime to an absolute minimum. Having two downtime figures there is confusing

Author: Amended! TY

> - Migrations performed using *immediate cutover* can reduce downtime to zero. These require the most preparation, and typically allow read/write traffic to both databases for at least a small amount of time, thereby sacrificing consistency for availability. {% comment %}You can use the CockroachDB Live Migration Service (MOLT LMS) to run application queries simultaneously on your source database and CockroachDB.{% endcomment %} Without stopping application traffic, you perform an **immediate** [cutover](#cutover-strategy), while assuming that some writes will not be replicated to CockroachDB. You may want to manually reconcile these data inconsistencies after switching over.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Migrations performed using *immediate cutover* can reduce downtime to zero. These require the most preparation, and typically allow read/write traffic to both databases for at least a short period of time, sacrificing consistency for availability. {% comment %}You can use the CockroachDB Live Migration Service (MOLT LMS) to run application queries simultaneously on your source database and CockroachDB.{% endcomment %} Without stopping application traffic, you perform an **immediate** [cutover](#cutover-strategy), while assuming that some writes will not be replicated to CockroachDB. You may want to manually reconcile these data inconsistencies after switching over.
```
Is the commented text intentional?

Before moving data, Cockroach Labs recommends [dropping any indexes]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/drop-index.md %}) on the CockroachDB database. The indexes can be [recreated]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/create-index.md %}) after the data is loaded. Doing so will optimize performance.
{{site.data.alerts.end}}

After [converting the schema](#convert-the-schema), load your data into CockroachDB so that you can [test your application queries](#validate-queries). Then use [MOLT Fetch]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/molt-fetch.md %}) to move the source data to CockroachDB.

> Alternatively, you can use one of the following methods to migrate the data (you may need to use additional tooling to extract and/or convert the data to an appropriate file format):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Alternatively, you can use one of the following methods to migrate the data. Additional tooling may be required to extract or convert the data to a supported file format.
```

> - {% include {{ page.version.version }}/migration/load-data-import-into.md %} Typically, initial data loading during a database migration will not be running concurrently with application traffic, so the fact that `IMPORT INTO` takes the table offline may not have any observable availability impact.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- {% include {{ page.version.version }}/migration/load-data-import-into.md %} Typically during a migration, data is initially loaded before foreground application traffic begins to be served, so the impact of taking the table offline when running `IMPORT INTO` may be minimal.
```

##### Shadowing

> You can "shadow" your production workload by executing your source SQL statements on CockroachDB in parallel. You can then [test the queries](#test-query-results-and-performance) on CockroachDB for consistency, performance, and potential issues with the migration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can "shadow" your production workload by executing your source SQL statements on CockroachDB in parallel. You can then [validate the queries](#test-query-results-and-performance) on CockroachDB for consistency, performance, and potential issues with the migration.
```

> Shadowing should **not** be used in production when performing a [live migration with consistent cutover](#zero-downtime).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Shadowing should **not** be used in production when performing a [live migration with consistent cutover](#zero-downtime). Any shadowing mode is only meant for dry-run or testing.
```

> Shadowing should **not** be used in production when performing a [live migration](#zero-downtime). The [CockroachDB Live Migration Service (MOLT LMS)]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/live-migration-service.md %}) can [perform shadowing]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/live-migration-service.md %}#shadowing-modes). This is intended only for [testing](#test-query-results-and-performance) or [performing a dry run](#perform-a-dry-run).

Reviewer: The first two sentences here seem out of order. The first and last sentences are somewhat redundant / overlapping. Could use a little rewriting.

The following is a high-level overview of the migration steps. For considerations and details about the pros and cons of this approach, see [Migration Strategy: Lift and Shift]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/migration-strategy-lift-and-shift.md %}).

1. Stop application traffic to your source database. **This begins downtime.**
1. Use [MOLT Fetch]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/molt-fetch.md %}) to move the source data to CockroachDB.
1. After the data is migrated, use [MOLT Verify]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/molt-verify.md %}) to validate the consistency of the data between the source database and CockroachDB.
1. Perform a [cutover](#cutover-strategy) by resuming application traffic, now to CockroachDB.

> {% comment %}1. If you want the ability to [roll back](#all-at-once-rollback) the migration, replicate data back to the source database.{% endcomment %}

Reviewer: Does the fact that this is commented mean that you can't roll back for now?

Author: Good catch. At the time, we didn't have tools to support this. @Jeremyyang920 is this a step we could accomplish now with the LMS or Fetch?

Reviewer 3: Right now no it would require that you had something like replicator pushing back into your original source DB to allow for a rollback.

> ### Zero Downtime

Reviewer: This is a different claim from earlier, when we only talked about "minimizing" or "reducing" downtime.

During a "live migration", downtime is minimized by performing the cutover while writes are still being replicated from the source database to CockroachDB. Inconsistencies are resolved through manual reconciliation.

> The following is a high-level overview of the migration steps. The two approaches are mutually exclusive, and each has its own advantages and disadvantages. For details, see [Minimal downtime](#minimal-downtime). {% comment %}For details on this migration strategy, see [Migration Strategy: Zero Downtime]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/migration-strategy-lift-and-shift.md %}).{% endcomment %}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following is a high-level overview of the migration steps. The two approaches are mutually exclusive, and each has tradeoffs. For details, refer to [Minimal downtime](#minimal-downtime). {% comment %}For details on this migration strategy, refer to [Migration Strategy: Zero Downtime]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/migration-strategy-lift-and-shift.md %}).{% endcomment %}
```
This mixing "minimal" and "zero" also seems confusing.

To prioritize consistency and minimize downtime:

> 1. Set up the [CockroachDB Live Migration Service (MOLT LMS)]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/live-migration-service.md %}) to serve as a proxy for application traffic between your source database and CockroachDB. Do **not** shadow the application traffic.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Set up the [CockroachDB Live Migration Service (MOLT LMS)]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/live-migration-service.md %}) to proxy for application traffic between your source database and CockroachDB. Do **not** shadow the application traffic.
```

> 1. Use [MOLT Fetch]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/molt-fetch.md %}) to move the source data to CockroachDB. Use the tool to **replicate ongoing changes** after performing the initial load of data into CockroachDB. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Use [MOLT Fetch]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/molt-fetch.md %}) to copy the initial source data to CockroachDB. Use the tool to **replicate ongoing changes** after performing the initial load of data into CockroachDB. 
```

1. As the data is migrating, you can use [MOLT Verify]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/molt-verify.md %}) to validate the consistency of the data between the source database and CockroachDB.

> 1. Once nearly all data from your source database has been moved to CockroachDB (for example, with a <1 second delay or <1000 rows), use MOLT LMS to begin a [*consistent cutover*]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/live-migration-service.md %}#consistent-cutover) and stop application traffic to your source database. **This begins downtime.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. After nearly all data from your source database has been moved to CockroachDB (for example, with a <1 second delay or <1000 rows), use MOLT LMS to begin a [*consistent cutover*]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/live-migration-service.md %}#consistent-cutover) and stop application traffic to your source database. **This begins downtime.**
```

> 1. Wait for replication to CockroachDB to complete.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Wait for replication to CockroachDB to complete the migration.
```
Isn't it Molt LMS that is completing the migration?

Author: This part is handled by MOLT Fetch (or a tool like DMS). Thanks for the question; I'm clarifying.

1. Use MOLT LMS to commit the [consistent cutover]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/live-migration-service.md %}#consistent-cutover). This resumes application traffic, now to CockroachDB.

To achieve zero downtime with inconsistency:

> 1. Set up the [CockroachDB Live Migration Service (MOLT LMS)]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/live-migration-service.md %}) to serve as a proxy for application traffic between your source database and CockroachDB. Use a [shadowing mode]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/live-migration-service.md %}#shadowing-modes) to run application queries simultaneously on your source database and CockroachDB.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Set up the [CockroachDB Live Migration Service (MOLT LMS)]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/live-migration-service.md %}) to proxy for application traffic between your source database and CockroachDB. Use a [shadowing mode]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/live-migration-service.md %}#shadowing-modes) to run application queries simultaneously on your source database and CockroachDB.
```

> 1. Use [MOLT Fetch]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/molt-fetch.md %}) to move the source data to CockroachDB. Use the tool to **replicate ongoing changes** after performing the initial load of data into CockroachDB.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Use [MOLT Fetch]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/molt-fetch.md %}) to copy the source data to CockroachDB. Use the tool to **replicate ongoing changes** after performing the initial load of data into CockroachDB.
```

1. As the data is migrating, you can use [MOLT Verify]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/molt-verify.md %}) to validate the consistency of the data between the source database and CockroachDB.

> 1. Once nearly all data from your source database has been moved to CockroachDB (for example, with a <1 second delay or <1000 rows), perform an [*immediate cutover*](#cutover-strategy) by pointing application traffic to CockroachDB.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. After nearly all data from your source database has been moved to CockroachDB (for example, with a <1 second delay or <1000 rows), perform an [*immediate cutover*](#cutover-strategy) by pointing application traffic to CockroachDB.
```
